Metasploit Automation
While the Metasploit Framework
automates quite a bit for us,
we can further automate
repetitive commands
inside the Metasploit Framework itself.
When we use a payload to create
a standalone executable
or a client-side attack vector
like an HTML application,
we select options like payload
type, local host, and local port.
The same options must then be set
in the multi/handler module.
To streamline this, we can take advantage
of Metasploit resource scripts.
We can use any number of Metasploit
commands in a resource script.
For example, let’s create a script in our
home directory named setup.rc.
The script starts by using the
multi/handler module.
We will set the payload to windows
reverse https meterpreter payload,
and configure the relevant
LHOST and LPORT parameters.
We’ll also enable stage encoding…
using the x86/shikata_ga_nai encoder…
and configure the windows
post exploitation migrate module
to be executed automatically
using the AutoRunScript option.
This will cause the spawned
meterpreter to automatically
launch a background notepad.exe
process and migrate to it.
Finally, the ExitOnSession
parameter is set to false
to ensure that the listener
keeps accepting new connections,
and the module is executed
with the -j and -z flags
to stop us from automatically
interacting with the session.
We can execute our resource script by
passing the -r flag to msfconsole.
With the listener configured and running,
we can, for example, launch an executable
containing a Meterpreter payload
from our Windows VM.
When executed, our multi/handler
accepts the connection.
The session was spawned
using second stage encoding,
and successfully migrates automatically
into the notepad.exe process.